for this demonstration I want to show
you some of the really creative ways you
can work with paper texture in Corel
Painter and the methods that I'm going
to be showing you are only the tip of
the iceberg because there's so much more
that you can do including working with
patterns and applying patterns and
overlays but let's just take a look at
some of the simple ways that you can
apply really interesting paper textures
to your images this is a flattened
illustration kind of a period piece
illustration that I'm I wanted to apply
paper texture to so we're going to take
a look at a couple of ways we can go
about this now the traditional way and
let's just start with a very first or
basic way of applying paper texture when
we open our paper libraries we're going
to go up to the window menu and choose
window paper panels or command or
control 9 which will open up our paper
libraries and our paper panel now I'm
going to go to the libraries and I'm
going to select I think I'll just go
with this
maybe the rough watercolor and we'll go
ahead and and use that one first to
apply that I first of all want to select
the paper that I want to apply the
texture and I'm going to go up to the
effects menu choose effects surface
control and apply a surface texture and
you'll notice when I select that there
is a new panel that comes up that will
give you several choices we're going to
deal with this particular tutorial on
using paper however there are other
options in the drop-down that you can
experiment with which will all create
very very interesting textural effects
on your image so we're going to select
paper and we're going to come down to
the appearance of
categories here where we can control how
the effect is going to be applied and
you'll see a little preview here and I
notice that it's it's pretty strong so
I'm going to go ahead and bring it down
to a more reasonable what I feel more of
a realistic paper texture because I
don't want something that is too strong
one of the things that you'll want to do
when you apply a paper texture is to
ensure that it's not overdone there's
nothing that will take away from the
beauty of your illustration or the
beauty of your painting then paper
texture that's applied to too strong so
be gentle with it at first and take a
look at it if you need to apply it just
consists ctrl Z command Z for Mac redo
it and try again with a different
setting this is a watercolor paper and
it and I don't like shine on watercolor
paper so that's one of the areas that
would that I would bring all the way
down to zero percent so let's go ahead
now and select okay
and you can see and I'm going to zoom in
here that that paper texture has been
applied to the image and it looks pretty
good you know it looks pretty realistic
you know it it's not overly overdone and
this is this looks to be just about
right
you